---
layout: post
title:  "Language, there's more to it than English"
date:   2017-11-10 12:43:29 +0200
categories: communication language 
---

I'm always surprised about German's English skills, on the one hand
they are this open, well traveled, well educated, very *sofisticated*
society and they have Europe's strongest economy, yet go to any mid
size town and people are really scared to speak English. Apart from
the French (who apparently just dislike the language), I have yet to
experience this so frequently. Don't get me wrong. I have absolutely
no problem with it. I love Germans, Germany and saying *Kann Ich nog
eine bier haben*, and my mother tongue is neither German nor English
so I don't have dog in this fight.

Anyway, one of the main reasons, and Germans will also tell you this,
is that they translate everything for them, every major movie is also
released in German. Compare that to Finland for instance, while
there's a much smaller population you can get away without knowing a
word of it and I've heard that about the other Scandinavian countries
to, and apparently they show all the movies in English. My own English
skills mainly developed from Cartoon Network (maybe my writing still
reflects this).

There is however some benefits of this mass translation for Germans,
their language is exceptionally well evolved. I say this with envy. My
own native tongue is Afrikaans and I am embarrassed when I hear myself
speak. I often can't find words to describe common things. There's
other reasons for that to, in the last three years I've lived outside
South-Africa mostly, subsequently I only speak Afrikaans once a week
or so with my family. To be totally honest, my language in general is
at a low point at this moment. I speak broken English to Germans, very
broken German to Germans, and broken Afrikaans to my parents.

So in that sense, would I encourage Germans to put in more effort into
learning English? Yeah, of course, why not... But, I think it's
important for the language to continue to flourish and to do that they
have to keep is as ingrained in their society as possible and they
have to publish academic stuff in German. I don't think that showing
all television shows in English is suddenly going kill a language like
German, but it's the principle of preserving a language that I care
about. We should strive to build every language up to a place where it
can stand on it's own in any academic field. We (I) should stop this
tendency to use English neologisms when we don't know a word.  Yes,
it's important that we can communicate beyond borders, but we should
never think that an language is useless beyond an airport! I think as
future scientists we have a obligation to take one this challenge. So
whatever your mother tongue is go out and write in it whenever you
can, even if it's just for yourself like a note on the desk, just
write it!

So on that rant, I am going to challenge myself to improve my
Afrikaans vocabulary again, by writing some stuff and also reading
more books written in Afrikaans.
